a certain woman of the wives of the sons
of the prophets cried out to Elijah your
servant my husband is dead and you know
that your servant feared the Lord and
the creditor is coming to take my two
sons to be his slaves what shall I do
for you tell me what do you have in the
house your maidservant has nothing in
the house but a jar of oil go borrow
vessels from everywhere from all your
neighbor's empty vessels do not gather
just a few and when you have come in you
shall shut the door behind you and your
sons then pour it into all those vessels
and set aside the full ones so she went
from him and shut the door behind her
and her sons who brought the vessels to
her and she poured it out now it came to
pass when the vessels were full that she
said to her son that bring me another
vessel there is not another vessel so
the oil ceased then she came and told
the man of God and he said go sell the
oil and pay your debt and you and your
sons live on the rest now it happened
one day that Elijah went to shulam where
there was a notable woman and she
persuaded him to eat some food so it was
as often as he passed by he would turn
in there to eat some food and she said
to her husband look now I know that this
is a holy man of God who passes Bias
regularly please let us make a small
upper room on the wall and let us put it
there for him there and a table and a
chair and a lamp stand so it will be
whenever he comes to us he can turn in
there
and it happened one day that he came
there and he turned into the upper room
and lay down and he said to Gay's I his
servant called a shunammite woman
when he had called her she stood before
him and he said to him the same out to
her look you have been concerned for us
with all this care what can I do for you
do you want me to speak on your behalf
to the king or to the commander of the
army I dwell among my own people what
then is to be done for her and get Hays
I answered actually she has no son and
her husband is old call her when he had
called her she stood in the doorway
about this time next year you shall
embrace a son no my lord
man of God do not lie to your
maidservant but the woman conceived and
bore a son when the appointed time had
come of which Elisha had told her and
the child grew now it happened one day
that he went out to his father to the
Reapers and he said to his father so he
said to her servant carry him to his
mother when he had taken him and brought
him to his mother he sat on her knees
till noon and then died
[Music]
and she went out and laid him on the bed
of the man of God shut the door upon him
and went out and she called to her
husband he's send me one of the young
men and one of the donkeys that I may
run to the man of God and come back why
are you going to him today
it is neither the new moon nor the
Sabbath it is well then she saddled the
donkey and said to her servant drive and
go forward
do not slacken the peace for me unless I
tell you
and so she departed and went to the man
of God at Mount come so it was when the
man of God saw her afar off that he said
to his servant gazzarri look the
shunammite woman please run now to meet
her and say to her is it well with you
is it well with your husband
is it well with the child
[Music]
it is well now when she came to the man
of God at the hill she caught him by the
feet but gay Hayes I came near to push
her away but the man of God said let her
alone for her soul is in deep distress
the Lord has hidden it from me has not
told me
did I ask a son of my lord
did I not say do not deceive me then he
said to kill his eye
get yourself ready and take my staff in
your hand and be on your way if you meet
anyone do not greet him and if anyone
greets you do not answer him but lay my
staff on the face of the child as the
Lord lives and as your soul lives I will
not leave you so he arose and followed
her now gaze I went on ahead of them and
laid the staff on the face of the child
but there was neither voice nor hearing
therefore he went back to meet him and
told him the child is not awakened
[Music]
when Elijah came into the house there
was the child lying dead on his bed he
went in there for shut the door behind
the two of them and pray to the Lord and
he went up and lay on the child and put
his mouth on his mouth his eyes on his
eyes and his hands on his hands and he
stretched himself out on the child
and the flesh of the child became warm
he returned and walked back and forth in
the house and again went up and
stretched himself out on him
then the child sneezed seven times and
the child opened his eyes and he called
a haze I call - inna my woman so he
called her pick up your son so she went
in fell at his feet and fell to the
ground then she picked up her son and
went up and Elijah returned to Gilgal
and there was a famine in the land now
the sons of the prophets were sitting
before him and he said to his servant
put on the large pot and boil stew for
the sons of the prophets so one went out
into the field to gather herbs and found
a wild vine and gathered from it a
lapful
of wild gourds and came and sliced them
into the pot of stew though they did not
know what they were then they served it
to the men to eat now it happened as
they were eating the stew that they
dried out and said man of God there is
death in the pot and they could not eat
it then bring some flour and he put it
into the pot serve it to the people that
they may eat and there was nothing
harmful in the pot
then a man came from bail shallow sure
and brought the man of God bread of the
firstfruits 20 loaves of barley bread
and newly ripened grain in his knapsack
and he said give it to the people that
they may eat but his servant said what
shall I said this before 100 men give it
to the people that they may eat for thus
says the Lord they shall eat and have
some leftover sir he said it before them
and they ate and had some leftover
according to the word of the Lord
[Music]
you